confac
======

## Version Lock-In

We're locked into these versions (for the backend):  
Node **v16.10.0**, TypeScript v4.3 and mongodb **v3.5.8**  
- Could attempt to upgrade mongodb to v4.4.1
- This is the lastest version of mongo that does not require VAX which our production server doesn't have
- For later versions of mongo the @types/mongodb is no longer necessary but there are breaking changes
  - ex: ObjectId -> ObjectID


## Starting DEV

front/back: `npm install` followed by `npm start`

### Backend

Expects a running mongo with `backend/src/config.ts` settings.  
Create a development `.env` file to change the default config.

```bash
# Start dev server
cd backend
cp .env.sample .env
cp -r templates-example templates
npm install
npm start
```

## MongoDb

```bash
docker volume create mongodata
docker run -id -p 27017:27017 -e "MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_USERNAME=admin" -e "MONGO_INITDB_ROOT_PASSWORD=pwd" -v mongodata:/data/db --name confac-mongo mongo:3.6.3
```

### Migrations

```sh
cd deploy
npm run create some-name
npm run up

# Or on server:
./migrate.sh
```



## Emailing

Development: Set `SENDGRID_API_KEY` in `src/config/index.ts`  
Production: Set `process.env.SENDGRID_API_KEY`  



## Server Dependencies

Fonts need to be present in `/usr/share/fonts` for pdf text to be selectable.

For the merging of PDFs, [PDFtk](https://www.pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-the-pdf-toolkit/) needs to be installed.

```bash
apt-get install pdftk
cinst -y pdftk-server
```


## Deployment

See `deploy/deploy.sh`


### Seeding random data

Configure amounts in `backend/src/faker/faker-config.ts`
Mongo db credentials are read automatically from the env file.

```sh
cd backend
npm run faker
```


## Template testing


Location: `./templates/*.pug`

```bash
# Compile html
gulp build
gulp watch

# Watch html (http://localhost:8080/)
npx http-server -o ./dist -o
```



## Junction error

`npm start` fails with weird error when run from a junction.

```text
Parsing error: Unexpected token:

React.FC<P & ButtonWithClickOnceProps>
           ^
```

## E-invoice xml

The e-invoices generated by confac should comply with the Peppol BIS Billing 3.0 standard defined by the EU.
To doublecheck if the created xml does follow this protocol, you can use this
[tool](https://ecosio.com/en/peppol-and-xml-document-validator/).
Choose 'OpenPeppol UBL Invoice (2023.11) (aka BIS Billing 3.0.16)' as the ruleset.
This is the most current ruleset at the time of writing.
Release notes and the general xml structure can be consulted [here]( https://docs.peppol.eu/poacc/billing/3.0)  
